Chapter 1 Packet Forwarding

 

If you notice a switch port with multiple MAC addresses, that means this port could be connected to another switch, hub, or virtual switch or Voip device. 

 

It is possible to have multiple IPs attached to an interface. You will need  to use the secondary command for IPv4, but not IPv6.   Ex. Ip add 172.16.0.1 255.255.0.0 secondary. 

 

Cisco express forwarding contains FIB and adjacency table and is much faster than process forwarding. 

 

FIB uses RIB for programming. 

 

The RIB is basically the routing table 

 

Every switch in a switch stack must be configured with the same SDM features. 

 

Chapter 2 spanning Tree 

 

802.1d (original spanning tree) 

802.1w (RSTP) 

802.1s (MST) 

  

802.1d port states (30sec process) 

Disabled - port is shutdown 

Blocking - does not forward traffic. Only receives BPDUs. 

Listening - sends or receives BPDUs, but cannot forward any other network traffic 

Learning - same as listening but can now modify the MAC table 

Forwarding - forwards all traffic and updates table 

Broken - configuration issue, packets are discarded. 

 

802.1d port types 

Root port - connects to root bridge. 1 per vlan 

Designated port - receives and forwards BPDUs. 1 DP per link 

Blocking port - not forwarding 

 

STP terminology 

BPDU types - configuration and topology 

System priority - default value 32,768 

Max age - default time 20secs 

Hello time- default time is 2 secs 

Forward delay - default time is 15 secs 

 

RSTP 802.1w port states 

Discarding - combo of disabled, blocking, and listening. Is not forwarding any traffic 

Learning - modifies mac table and only forwards BPDUs 

Forwarding- forwards all traffic 

 

802.1w port roles 

Alternate- provided alternate connectivity to the root switch. 

Backup- link redundancy 

  

802.1w Port Types 

 Edge - port fast enabled ports. Cannot form a loop 

Root- best path to the root bridge 

Point to point - full duplex connect between another switch via RSTP. 

⁰ 

Chapter 3  Advance STP tuning 

Spanning-tree vlan primary command sets the root bridge priority to 24,576 and the secondary to 28,672. 

You configure the spanning tree cost on the port interface.  

Int g0/0, spanning-tree vlan 1 cost 

Spanning tree port-fast trunk should only be used on interfaces connected to hosts such as a server. If connected to another switch could cause a loop. 

To recovery a switch from a BPDU err-disable use command err disable recovery cause bpduguard in global configuration. 

Do not enable loop guard on port fast enable ports . 

Chapter 4 Multiple Spanning Tree Protocol 

MST is one or multiple vlans mapped to a single spanning tree instance. 

Internal spanning tree - 1st instance and is always 0. 

MSTI's support are 16. 

MST region boundary any port that connects to a switch in a different region. 

Chapter 5 Vlan Trunks and Ether Channel Bundles 

In VTP domain version 3, the primary server is set with the command VTP primary. 

There are 3 VTP advertisement updates: 

Summary- occurs every 300s or when a new vlan is added. Contains the vtp version, domain, config revision #, and time stamp 

Subnet- occurs when a vlan is changed 

Client Request- requested by the client when a low priority switch joins the vtp domain. 

It is important to reset the revision number on a switch to 0 before adding it to vtp domain to avoid possibly having vlans deleted.  

There are 3 modes for setting a switchport Trunk 

Trunk 

Dynamic desirable (acts as an access port, but listens for DTP  packets)   

Dynamic Auto (same concept as dynamic desirable, but cannot negotiate with another auto port) 

Switchport non-negotiate prevents a port from becoming a trunk. 

PagP - Port Aggression Protocol, 2 modes auto and desirable 

LACP- Link Aggression Protocol, 2 modes passive and active 

LACP additional configuration: port channel min, port channel max, system priority, interface priority. 

When troubleshooting port channel, all interfaces should have the same characteristics for 

Port type- Layer 2 or 3 

Port mode- either access or trunk 

Native and Allow Vlans -  

Speed and Duplex 

MTU 

Load interval 

Storm control 

Chapter 6 IP routing essentials 

Distance Vector = Ripv2 (hop count) 

Enhance/Hybrid = EIGRP ( Delay and Bandwidth) 

Link State = OSPF and IS-IS (interface cost) 

Path Vector = BGP (path attributes) 

Path Selection: Prefix length, Administrative distance, Metric 

VRF= virtual routers on a physical router 

Chapter 7 EIGRP 

5 Packet types - Hello, Request, Update, Query, Reply 

In EIGPR's wide metric, an additional K value (k6) is added. 

 

Chapter 8 OSPF  

5 Packet Types - Hello, BDB, LSR, LSU, LSA 

OSPF Neighbor States- Down, Attempt, Init, 2-way, Exstart, Exchange, Loading, Full 

OSPF adjacencies n(n-1)/2  

 

Chapter 9 Advance OSPF 

Area 0 is the backbone that everything must connect to prevent routing loops. 

An interface can belong to only one area. 

ABR's advertise routes from one area to another.  

Type 1 LSA's are not advertised outside of the area. 

DR's will always advertise Type 2 LSA's. 

Maximum ECMP paths is 4. 

Distribute list are used to allow routes to exist in the LSDB, but not the RIB 

Sh ip ospf to identify changes in auto reference bandwidth 

Sh ip protocols to verify the type of router is OSPF such as ABR,ASBR,etc 

Chapter 11 BGP 

Path Attribute: Well-known mandatory, well-know discretionary, optional transitive, optional non-transitive 

AS_Path attribute is used for loop prevention. 

Each address family has a separate database.  

BGP message types: Open, Update, Notification, Keepalive 

BGP states: Idle, Connect, Active, OpenSent, OpenConfirm, Established 

BGP tables: Adj-RIB-In; Loc-RIB, and Adj-RIB-Out 

Adj-RIB-out table shows routes advertised to a specific router (advertised-routes) 

BGP static summarization: Static and Dynamic  

MP-BPG allows BPG to carry NLRI's for multiple protocols.  

No bgp default ipv4 unicast requires bgp neighbors to be activated with address family configuration. 

Chapter 12 Advance BGP 

For ACL's in BGP, the source field matches the network portion and the destination matches the network mask. 

High order bit patter, high order bit count.  

Higher-order bit count <ge-value <=le-value 

Clearing bgp sessions: hard and soft reset. Hard - clear ip bgp; for soft same command just add soft at the end. 

BGP community 2 types: private and extended.  

Bgp well known communities: 4,294,901,760 and 4,294,967,295. Internet, no_advertise, no_export 

Bgp standard community lists (1-99) and match to well known communities or private communities.  

Expanded community lists are 100 to 500 and use regex patterns 

 

<<wallace encore.pdf>>
Chapter 13 Multicast 

PIM is for layer 3 traffic and IGMP is for layer 2 traffic. 

Multicast IP range 224.0.0.0-239.255.255.255 

<<20201121_123102.jpg.jpg>>
 

<<20201121_123319.jpg.jpg>>
IGMP snooping - table of IGMP join requests 

Source tree - multicast distribution tree where the source is the root and the branches form a distribution tree through the network. (SPT) (S,G) = source, group 

Shared tree - router as the rendezvous point (RP). (*, G) = star, group 

Reverse Path Forwarding is used to prevent loops and ensure multicast traffic arrives at the correct path. 

RP's are mandatory for PIM-SM 

Chapter 14 QOS 

Layer 7  classification NBAR2 (Next Generation Network-Based Application Recognition). 2 types: Protocol Discovery, Modular QOS 

Classification distinguishes between traffic streams. 

Marking colors packet so that it is distinguished by other QOS mechanisms. 

<<20201125_153542.jpg.jpg>>
 

The four AF classes: AF1 - AF4. x = IP Precence and y = Drop Probability 

DSCP/AF conversion is 8x+2y 

Chapter 15 IP services 

Hierarchical VRRP = fhrp version vrrp v3 

GLBP load balancing  types: Round Robin, Weighted, Host-dependent 

Chapter 16 Overlays 

Authentication header provides integrity, authentication, and protection but not encryption 

ESP provides confidentiality, authentication, and protection has encryption 

IKE performs authentication between two end and establishes SA's or IKE tunnels 

Cryto maps are not good for tunnels 

When choosing DH group choose higher than 14 

Chapter 17 Wireless Signals and Modulation 

2.4GHZ is less effective by free space 

Chapter 19 Wirelesss 

Roaming entirely within a controller is called intracontroller roaming 

Chapter 20 Wireless 

WPA uses pre-shared keys and 802.1x 

2 types of WebAuth LWA local (WLC) and LWA external (Radius or LDAP server) 

Chapter 23 

If using CLI or and API this is considered a Cisco Campus fabric solution. When campus fabric is managed by Cisco DNA center this is SD-Access. 

4 layers: physical, network, controller, management 

Physical: switches, routers, wlcs, cisco DNA center, ISE 

In the underlay network it is recommended to use Layer 3 routing protocol IS-IS. 

2 types of underlays: Manual (uses CLI or API), Automated(Cisco DNA center) 

Overlay network ( SD-Access Fabric) has 3 planes: Control (LISP), Data(VXLAN), Policy (Cisco TrustSec) 

3 main controller subsystems: network control platform, network data platform, ISE 

Management Layer: design, policy, provision, assurance  

SD-WAN - vManage, vSmart, vOrchestrator, analytics 

2 Routers for SD-WAN: vEdge and cEdge 

vOchestrator is the only with public IP address. Contains the control plane connection, NAT traversal, and Load Balancing 

Chapter 29 

Puppet - Agent-Based, manifests and modules,  

Chef - Agent-Based, cookbooks and recipes, based on Ruby 

Saltstack - Agent-Based, pillars and grains, based on Python, YAML 

Ansible - Agentless, playbooks, YAML,  

Puppet Bolt - Agentless,  

SaltSSH- Agentless 
